Terraform is a tool used to maintain infrastructure as a code.
or
Managing infrastructure with code.
/*
Hashicorp's Terraform is a tool designed for creating, managing, updating, and versioning reproducible application infrastructure.
Application infrastructure is composed of all physical and virtual resources (including compute resources and upstack services) which support the flow, storage, processing, and analysis of data.
*/

we waited for weeks or months to provision a bare metal server for our application. 
But now , because of cloud no need to wait weeks or months to provision a bare metal server for our application.

The same way we waiter for weeks or months to make application live. But now, because of DevOps culture no need to wait weeks or months
to make application live.

Thats fine.

Now its time to understanda IAC ( Infrastructure as a code )

First, let me go with Infrastructure:
  In a world of physical servers, infrastructure was defined in terms of servers, networks and storage systems, and software was
  provisioned on top of the hardware.
  
  In a cloud world we dont bother about hardware.
  
  So we can provision any number of required servers as you required, right ?
  ok
  
  To provision all those things instead of manual work, we can also write code. 
  So, using code if we create a infrastructure/application deployment  as per our requirement then this is called Infrastructure as a code.
  
  Infrastructure as a code (IAC) is of two types.
    1. Infrastructure as a code for servers.
    2. Insrastructure as a code for softwares/application deployment.
    
  
  Make sure that using code, we can provision servers and also softwares.
  
  Just assume that we need to deploy an application on the existing infrastructure then we can use and devops configuration management
  tools like ansible, cheff, puppet etc...
  And remember that, To deploy an application suppose we need app servers, to run that java. So all we we can configure or provision using
  configuration management tools.
  
  But now i need to provision infrastructure as a code for server then how ?
  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  yes, you can provision infrastructure using configration management tools/ python / shell or any other scriptngs but they cant maintain
  history of infrastructure you created. Because of that it will create a problem. Explain it.................by executing python script
  and terrafrom script.
  
  So, remember that configration management tools are best suite to work on existing infrastructure to do configration.
  
  Chef, Puppet, Ansible, and SaltStack are all “configuration management” tools, which means they are designed to install and manage 
  software on existing servers.
  
  
  CloudFormation and Terraform are “orchestration tools”, which means they are designed to provision the servers themselves, leaving the
  job of configuring those servers to other tools.
  
  
  CloudFormation is only for aws whereas terrafrom is for any cloud provider.
  I mean Terraform can provision servers from any cloud provider.
  
  Terraform is in declarative language.
  Configuration management tools are in proceduratl language.
  
 


